history - to show all the history
history -c -to clear all history
cal - calander
date - date
time - time
clear - to clear the screen
exit - it is used to exited in shall
sleep 5 - it is used to hold the terminal in a specified amount time in seconds
kill pid - to stop the service based on the pid 
kill 1263 - to stop the tomcat server
grep - it is used to search the contents 
cat filename | grep user
cut - it is used to extract the columns of a file 
cut -d '' -f1 filename.
sed - it is used to edit the files and o/p's the result
sed 's/balu/nikhil/g' filename - it doesn't for the original file
sed -i 's/balu/nikhil/g' filename - it will effect the original file
sed -n '2p' filename - it will print the second row

learn these cmds by your own and explain me that cmds
echo - It is used to display text or variables as output.
syntax :   	
echo "Hello, World!"

wc - to count the number of words, lines, and characters in a file or the output of a command.
syntax :
wc file - Count the number of lines, words, and characters in a file.
ls -l | wc -l - Count the number of lines in the output of a command.
wc -w filename - Display the number of words in a file.
wc -m filename - Count the number of characters in a file.

od - to display the contents of a files in various formats.
syntax :
od -b filename - Display a file in octal format.
od -h filename - Display a file in hexadecimal format.
od -c filename - Display a file in ASCII format.

zcat - 

ping 

host - 
uniq - to remove a duplicate and repeated lines in a file and to count a duplicate lines in a file.
syntax : 
uniq filename - remove duplicate lines in a file.
uniq -d filename - display duplicate lines in a file.
uniq -c filename - to count a duplicate lines in a file.

tr - to translate or delete characters from a file.
syntax :
echo "Hello" | tr 'l' 'L' - Replace all occurrences of a character.
echo "Hello" | tr -d 'l' - delete a specific character.
echo "Hello" | tr -s 'l' - squeezes consecutive occurrences of the letter 'l' into a single occurrence.

tee - to read from standard input and write to both standard output and files simultaneously. 
syntax :
ls -l | tee output.txt - Save the output of a command to a file. This command lists the contents of the current directory using the ls -l command and saves the output to a file named output.txt. The output is also displayed on the terminal.
echo "New line" | tee -a file.txt - This command appends the string "New line" to an existing file named.
ls | tee file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt - Save output to multiple files.

comm - to compare two sorted files line by line and display the lines that are common, unique, or exclusive to each file.
syntax :
comm file1.txt file2.txt - Find the common lines between two files.
comm -23 file1.txt file2.txt - Find lines exclusive to the first file.
comm -13 file1.txt file2.txt - Find lines exclusive to the second file.

more - to view the contents of a file one page at a time.
syntax :
more myfile.txt - to view the contents of a file one page at a time.

less - to view the contents of a file or the output of a command in a pager-like manner.
syntax :
less myfile.txt - to view the contents of a file or the output of a command in a pager-like manner.

find - to quickly search for files and directories in a system's.
syntx :
Find . - find all files and directories in the current directory.
find . -name "directory name" - Find a file named "directory name" in the current directory.
	
		
locate - to quickly search for files and directories on your system based on their names.
locate myfile.txt - Search for files with a specific name.

netstat - to display network connection information.
syntax :
netstat -a - Display all active network connections.
netstat -s - Display network statistics for each protocol.
netstat -r - Show the routing table.
netstat -l - Show listening ports
netstat -n - Display network connections using numerical addresses.
netstat -tuln - to display the current active network connections and listening ports on a Unix-like operating system.

vmstat - to display information about system memory, processes, paging, block I/O, CPU utilization, and virtual memory statistics.
syntax :
vmstat - Display overall system statistics.
vmstat 2 5 - Monitor memory and CPU utilization every 2 seconds, for a total of 5 updates.
vmstat -d - Display disk I/O statistics.
vmstat -s -S M - Show memory statistics in megabytes.

nano  - a text editor that provides a simple and intuitive interface for creating and editing text files.
syntax :
nano filename

what is env variables - dynamic values that can affect the behavior of processes and programs running on the system.
syntax :

awk - to manipulate and analyze data files based on specified patterns or field/column patterns.
syntax :
awk '{print}' file1 - to print a file.
awk '{print$2}' file1 - to print second column.
free -m - to prinyt a memory.
free -m | awk '/Mem/{print}' - to print a memory 
free -m | awk '/Mem/{print$1,$2}' - to print a memory in column 1 nd 2.

sar - to collect, report, and analyze system activity information.
syntx :
sar -u - Display CPU utilization statistics.
sar -r - Display memory utilization statistics.
sar -b - Display I/O and transfer rate statistics.



